East-Asian-Authoritarianism
================
Jack Carter
4/6/2021

## **Summary**

This report examines the possibility of a cultural disposition towards
authoritarianism in Sinic verses Anglophone countries. It finds that
there is indeed less positive sentiment in Sinc country Tweets
containing the words freedom and a selection of anti-authority words.
This may however be the result of situational context rather than
culture.

The rest of the report is organized into the following sections:

1.  The Current Situation
2.  Twitter: Sentiment Analysis

 

## **1. The Current Situation**

1.1: Overall democracy according to The Economist Intelligence Unit
*(EIU, 2020)*.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-1-1.png)<!-- -->

1.2: Aspects of democracy according to The Economist Intelligence Unit
*(EIU, 2020)*.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)<!-- -->

1.3: Power distance, the extent to which people accept unequal power in
society *(Hofestede, 2010)*.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)<!-- -->

 

## **2. Twitter: Sentiment Analysis**

The analysis examines tweets within a 50 mile range of the capital
cities of China, Vietnam, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, the
UK, the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.

A sentiment analysis is then conducted using the nrc lexicon library.
This is done by breaking the Tweets down into individual words before
counting how many times words associated with certain sentiments occur.
The data are then plotted as bar charts with each set of bars
representing a different week beginning on 10th April 2021.

 

2.1 Summary statistics.

|   Region   | Tweets (000s) | Tweets (%) | Words (000s) | Words (%) |
| :--------: | :-----------: | :--------: | :----------: | :-------: |
| Anglophone |     72.0      |    51.3    |     1363     |   45.6    |
|   Sinic    |     68.5      |    48.7    |     1624     |   54.4    |

 

### Freedom:

2.2 The net sentiment for freedom. Net sentiment is calculated as
positive minus negative words.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

2.3 Positive emotions for freedom.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-6-1.png)<!-- -->

2.3 Negative emotions for freedom.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png)<!-- -->

 

### Anti-Authority:

2.4 The net sentiment for anti-authority words (protest, rebel, revolt
and riot). Net sentiment is calculated as positive minus negative words.

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-8-1.png)<!-- -->

2.5 Positive emotions for anti-authority words (protest, rebel, revolt
and riot).

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-9-1.png)<!-- -->

2.6 Negative emotions for anti-authority words (protest, rebel, revolt
and riot).

![](East-Asian-Authoritarianism_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-10-1.png)<!-- -->

 

## **4. Conclusion**

Anglophone Twitter users appear to demonstrate a more positive overall
sentiment when using the word freedom and a selection of anti-authority
words. This may be the result of a great cultural disposition towards
European enlightenment ideals in the Anglophone countries verses values
of Confucian hierarchy in the Sinic countries.

It could also however be the result of a difference in context. Many
people in Hong Kong and Taiwan likely view their freedom as being
threatened by China and subsequently use these words in a negative way.
Countries such as Singapore are also very close geographically to
Myanmar where a military coup is currently destroying local freedoms.
Such factors could result in less positive overall sentiment.
